 local Redis via Docker is actually the better choice for development anyway (no network latency to a cloud service, no free-tier quirks like you hit with Supabase). Let's set it up.
Step 1: Run Redis in Docker
In any terminal (doesn't need to be inside your project folder), run:

bash  docker run -d --name chatbot-redis -p 6379:6379 redis:7-alpine

Breaking down what each part does:

-d → runs it in the background ("detached"), so it doesn't tie up your terminal
--name chatbot-redis → gives the container a friendly name, so you can refer to it later instead of some random ID
-p 6379:6379 → maps port 6379 on your laptop to port 6379 inside the container (6379 is Redis's default port) — this is what lets your Node app on your laptop actually reach the Redis running inside Docker
redis:7-alpine → the image to use — official Redis, version 7, on a lightweight ("alpine") Linux base

Step 2: Confirm it's running

bash  docker ps

You should see a row with chatbot-redis and status Up X seconds.

Step 3: Update your .env
Since it's running locally with default settings, no password needed:

REDIS_URL="redis://localhost:6379"

Step 4: Quick sanity check (optional but good practice)

bash docker exec -it chatbot-redis redis-cli ping

If Redis is healthy, it responds with:
PONG
A couple of things worth knowing for later:

If you restart your laptop, this container stops — you'll need to run docker start chatbot-redis to bring it back (not docker run again, that would try to create a duplicate).
Data in this container isn't persisted to a volume right now, meaning if you remove the container, any queued jobs sitting in Redis at that moment are gone. That's totally fine for local dev/testing — just something to be aware of, not a bug.

Try Steps 1-4 and paste me the output of docker ps and the PONG check — once that's confirmed working, we'll write src/lib/redis.ts and the actual BullMQ queue definition.how to stopTwo options depending on what you want:
Stop it (keeps the container, can restart later)

bash docker stop chatbot-redis

This just pauses it — all your setup (name, port mapping) is preserved. To bring it back later:

bash docker start chatbot-redis

Remove it entirely (deletes the container)
If you actually want to get rid of it completely (e.g., you misconfigured something and want a clean slate):

bash docker stop chatbot-redis
docker rm chatbot-redis

After rm, the container is gone — you'd need to run the full docker run ... command again from scratch to recreate it.
For your day-to-day workflow going forward: just use docker stop chatbot-redis when you're done working for the day, and docker start chatbot-redis the next time you sit down to code. No need to ever rm it unless something's actually broken.



